# 🌳 Welcome to ForCARMA! 🌲
The Forest Carbon and Risk Modeling Assessment, or ForCARMA, is focused primarily on managing for carbon storage and sequestration, taking risks like wildfire and insect outbreaks into account. One of our project goals is to be able to demonstrate carbon tradeoffs amidst a variety of management and risk scenarios to help influence on-the-ground management, and to see how these forest management strategies align with the emissions goals outlined within  [New Jersey's Global Warming Response Act (GWRA) 80x50 Report](dep.nj.gov/wp-content/uploads/climatechange/nj-gwra-80x50-report-2020.pdf)  and the  [New Jersey State Forest Action Plan](https://nj.gov/dep/parksandforests/forest/njsfap/). 

After careful consideration and much discussion, our team came to the conclusion that an approach using a series of comparative forest carbon yield curves to compare a variety of simulated scenarios versus a common baseline appears to be the best way to conduct an analysis of tradeoffs in forest carbon relative to emissions targets across an entire state and would better address the comparative questions asked of the team versus a conventional linear optimization model. Specifically, this will be accomplished by plotting average total carbon (carbon yield) curves over time (current year 2023 to approximately 2050) for a variety of risk and management scenario outputs. These curves will show us the range of possible carbon storage and sequestration outcomes for different management and risk scenarios, and we’ll be able to compare these scenarios to forest growth conditions in an ideal setting aka “lab conditions” (meaning maximum carbon yield is recognized as a series of simulation results using estimated forest growth along a series of growth curves minus competition-induced  mortality, without including forest losses or other sources of forest mortality). This type of comparison will let us know if our proposed management actions will ultimately help us in reaching New Jersey’s climate and greenhouse gas (GHG) emission goals, or if the goals set in the GWRA 80x50 Report are realistic for our forests in their current state (monitoring our management expectations). 

This tool could be used to develop more narrow or focused strategies for natural resource management across the state of New Jersey. It could also be used for planning, implementation, and monitoring of sustainable forest management and could later be integrated with forest management education and communication activities. The goal in using this tool is to engage with the public and natural resource managers effectively and efficiently both on an internal level (inter-agency cooperation) and an external level (external stakeholders and the public) to sustainably manage New Jersey’s forested resources in a climate-smart manner.

### Please check out our [wiki page](https://github.com/New-Jersey-Forest-Service/ForCARMA/wiki) for more information on yield curves, methodology, and results!
